[Music]
It's been a month since it's not gone. Seems like we should probably talk about that.
I'm getting all out. Do we have to?
I have a couple of positive things.
Okay.
Yeah.
I jotted down highlights and disappointments and I didn't really get very far in either.
[Laughs]
It made me realize just kind of how non-memorable this one was.
I was just like, "It wasn't really much good or bad, in my opinion."
But I forced myself to jot a few things down.
I mean, would you like to start?
Sure.
And you can start positive or negative.
I'll start positive.
My favorite part overall, I think, was the harsh noise demo Scott gave us of the bionic
luster and herd stonut Mark III.
It was just nice to see the joy in his face, you know, just brouching us with noise and
like drowning out everything else in that room for a good five minutes.
Everyone else was just kind of stopping and staring at him as he just kept making it louder.
I don't know if you noticed, but there was like a good like 10, 15 foot like semi-circle
of like no one else getting close to the booth.
Yeah.
Like it was--
Cleared out the aisle.
Yeah.
It was very effective.
It was.
And then it sold me on both of them, I think.
I don't own them yet, but yeah.
I mean, I would have walked out of there with them if he had them for sale.
Yeah.
The luster wasn't ready yet, but it's shipping as of yesterday.
So that's good to know.
And the herd stonut I just had been saving my pennies for.
I need to sell a couple plats before I can afford that one, I think.
He, uh, he's added a new mode since that demo also.
I don't know if you caught that.
Yeah.
And someone, uh, a friend of his mentioned that there should be a comb filter in there as well.
So he added a new comb filter mode at the end of the like mode rotation.
Uh-huh.
So.
Yeah.
Like the preset stuff he put into new modules to how it kind of simplifies some of the designs.
Good bit.
Yeah.
Being able to save stuff is more and more appealing to me lately.
Mm-hmm.
Likewise.
I'm.
But that was my number one.
Number two was, uh, being talked down to by, uh, Paul.
As always, as always.
Yeah.
Just made me feel, uh, good about myself.
Made me feel like a complete moron.
Listening to him to describe what his new, uh, E-520 can do
and what it doesn't do.
But, uh, yeah, was that anyone else's personal favorite?
That's always a personal, like, yeah.
Yeah.
That's what I thought.
Okay.
I'll, yeah.
I'll let you guys elaborate on, on that experience a little more.
The Hyperion and Paul's, you know, obviously you want to ask Paul which reverbs he's going to
put into it. Yeah.
Because that's what it's mainly targeting reverbs.
Absolutely.
Not special.
FFT effects.
No, they did anything can do FFT shit.
Yeah.
Anything can.
What we need is more reverbs.
More reverb.
Long tail.
They just don't exist.
Shimmering.
On tap market.
Can't get that stuff.
Paul's got your solution.
You know, the Hyperion looks cool.
It looks like he's trying to sell some before the Kickstarter to help
make funds available to build them beforehand.
Um, Kickstarter, you got to wait till kind of the end of everything's over.
Yeah.
So that's kind of smart.
So he's got like a limited thing on his site now where you can go and just kind of pre-order one.
It looks cool.
I think it's pretty big.
I don't think I've seen like a picture of the actual finished module yet.
He's got the HP count and the like kind of prototype board.
But it sounded really good from what I heard.
Like the modulation stuff was like, creamy for lack of a better word.
But you know, it sounded like not like a shitty digital effect.
What you would expect.
No, yeah, it sounded quality.
Yeah.
Did he announce a final price for it yet?
What is it going to be?
I think it's under six, but it was like 590 or something.
Definitely not cheap.
It's up there in the range with like a rain maker.
Yeah.
But you know, stereo flexible processor like that?
No, it seems like it's worth it.
It's just not a casual purchase.
Yeah.
So that's it's going to be a boutique.
Yes.
What was your top module, Dave?
Let me, uh, let me look at my list here.
Um, at the top of my list is also Scott's stuff.
I have Scott's new stuff and demeanor was apparently my number one, uh, thing demeanor.
Yeah.
No, he just liked the cut of his job.
I was what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Like you could tell he was just taking a lot of joy and just like blasting us with no reason.
Like, yeah.
And like at no point did he turn it down to do us.
There's a good chance he turned it up.
Oh, yeah.
It was like you bought the ticket.
You're going to take this fucking ride.
Yeah.
It's 10 o'clock in the morning.
You just woke up and stumbled down from your hotel room.
Yeah.
Let me introduce you to Bionic Lester.
My, my top two things, but aside from that was, um, the brown shoes only guy who was running the LZX.
Yeah.
Booth, um, not only was the memory palace awesome, but his presentation.
Presentation and just excitement over it.
I really liked that way of presenting where he just started with like, here's a picture of a flower.
And then five minutes later, 10 minutes later, it's just been completely destroyed.
That was really effective, um, as a presentation.
I'm trying real hard right now to not fall into the video rabbit hole this year.
And like that kind of almost spun me, you know, complete offs the direction.
Like now I really want a memory palace.
It got me.
Yeah.
That's my number one for sure.
There's another one, but the memory palace demo is just like, okay, mind fucking blown.
Now I'm going to dive in deeper into this.
Yeah.
Originally, there was a lot of video stuff that I had on my list, my, to get, and now I'm thinking
I could probably just make do with my, um, Ming mecha and a structure and a memory palace.
I don't know when the hell I'm going to get it, but it's definitely like, I must buy for me at this point.
I did see that they, um, apparently just identified like the big fix that was causing it to like,
figure out after multiple hours and it's actually involves, they're going to switch.
Everything was running off the SD card before and now they've found a way to use the on board,
like four gigabytes of flash ram that's right on the module.
That's going to help like alleviate that issue.
So that was kind of good because a lot of people have been having that issue with it.
It seemed very, at least a few people have been on the forum like talking about like,
eh, this isn't working.
Yeah.
I mean, I have the space for it's sort of, I think I can fit that in a structure in my
video rack over there.
Hopefully.
We're still talking about knob gone.
Um, do we want to get in the structure or?
Yeah, might as well.
Cause I, I, we have not actually talked about on the episode, right?
Yeah.
Not, um, since we got them.
I mean, that was another thing that was exciting, but it was by that point,
you and I both had structures.
So it doesn't really count as a knob con thing, but you're watching with me.
But you're watching this tone guys were there and we talked to them.
So it kind of counts as a knob con.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, there was a lot of structures in use.
Again, for sure.
It's definitely, uh, steel on the show with the visual stuff.
So I'm going to put it out there.
Uh, I mean, so far module of the year for me.
Yeah.
This is like maybe my favorite module ever.
Nice.
I'm having trouble coming up with complaints about it.
Okay.
Also, I did video the other night for four hours straight.
Not even a single blip, not a glitch, nothing.
It just ran perfectly smooth the whole time.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
I mean, you've, you've performed with it live a couple times already.
You've only had it for like what two months now or so.
Yeah.
And it's out of the box, hit random a bunch of times.
You're going to find something in a couple of minutes.
I mean, you can also dive deep into it, but it's also like,
if you just want to fuck around, it's fucking amazing just for that.
Yeah.
That's kind of what I had to learn with it to it first.
I was like, no, I'm not making all the shaders.
And it's like, no, no, no, no.
Maybe just use like your, your creativity to use these shaders in a way.
And especially since I added some analog video stuff to it,
it's like, oh, okay.
Now it's like really just processed the analog stuff with this.
So like it's, it's crazy.
Like structure by itself is still fun, but feeding stuff into it and using the video node,
but it just, it just makes it a thousand times better.
Yeah.
I'm going to have to, I guess, dig a little more into it.
Like I don't, you know, I haven't read the manual or anything,
but like I was under the impression that was mostly like a generator
and you would be running it into things.
It is.
Not necessarily processing with it.
So you have a bunch of the way that it's set up is you've got a bunch of these different
node sets.
And the node sets are up to, I think it's four and then the output.
And then there's different combinations and they sort of relate to one another.
And there are, these, there are sets that have no other input.
They don't take video input.
It's all just generators.
It's all just shaders.
It's all feedback or the mixer or taking an audio signal and generating video from that.
But a lot of them have this video in node and there's two different video in
you can do it through the RGB or another composite video.
And there's nothing stopping you.
And this is what I was doing at that, the BXC show was outputting and then feeding it
right back to itself.
I know.
Processing it through the fluxes and then going back in and then that becomes part of the video
node and then didn't even think of that.
Okay.
So yeah, you can use it like that.
Now they, and they keep adding nodes all the time.
Like each, they're already up to one nine, one point nine, I think is as of this recording
is the version they're on.
And each one is either like a bug fix or here's a new node and here,
and then they add it to like the set of nodes that you can use and process.
So like the way that random works is if you have none of the nodes selected and you hit random,
it's just going to do everything.
But you can be like, oh, I like this.
If you just have that selected and you hit random, it'll only randomize that or whatever
nodes you have selected.
Or you can just sit there and actually try to like go through the list of,
for each of the nodes and you know, start sculpting your own video from that.
Not only do you have that, you can then save those as presets.
And you have, I think it's up to 64.
You can save per performance.
And I think there's still a limitation only one performance per card.
But I think in the documentation they said they're going to make it so you can have multiple
performances.
There's three different inputs for modulation and they are either five volt or one volt.
And one volt is so that you can hook it up directly to that's the the LZX range.
Plus or minus one volt.
Okay.
But everything else you can go to, you can little switch to go to five and then there's
an attenuator on each one.
And then the top two, if you've got an audio node, you can send audio to it and then it'll react
to that audio signal and do different things.
And you can bring up a mic at like a live show.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
And I was like, at first I was kind of like, is this going to be like a cheesy club effect?
Where everything is just pulse to the kick drum type of shit.
Yeah.
And I'm like, this is like.
It gets brighter when the kick hits.
No, it's actually really awesome.
There's a lot of fucking amazing stuff in there.
I think there's like one or two cheesy things.
Yeah.
The, uh, that's Circubent BPMC mixer.
I had had a audio modulation point as well.
You could like.
Oh really?
Yeah.
I had like the touch contacts and it also had like, uh, I think it was like an onboard mic or something.
I can't remember off the top of my head.
Or I might have just plugged one in, but yeah, I could detect audio and make shit go crazy.
You know what I mean?
Depending on how you attenuated it.
But yeah, I can see the usefulness in that for sure, especially in like a live environment.
The idea of like making an audio set and then going, okay, cool.
There's also a video component too.
Yeah.
But this was, you could do that with easily hook this up.
No doubt.
When you say you can load video clips into it, like, there are specific formats and like.
Yeah, it's a very rigid format.
It's a little bit small.
Okay.
If you just want to have a small loop of something playing as opposed to having to take the input.
And you get like 128 frames or something like that.
When I was doing everything in Resolume, I would like render out, you know, chunks and,
you know, and then re-render, you know, mixing, mixing over and over.
And it would be cool to bounce some of the shit that I make in Resolume
or have already made in Resolume into that.
I'm just, I'm not sure how compatible it would be.
You know what I mean?
But I kept everything on the lower resolution side back then because the laptop that I was
doing everything from was garbage.
So like I had, in fact, one of the workarounds I used to do was instead of working with video
within Resolume, because that takes up a lot of resources, I would put my sources on to a DVD
and then use Power DVD, play it at a very slow rate and do screen caps because it had a built-in
screen cap option in Power DVD.
So I would just take like hundreds of screenshots and just have a folder now of like
bitmap files that I could dump into Resolume and play and sequence and essentially would be the
same as video.
Wasn't smooth, but it didn't need to be, you know what I mean?
I was in mangling video, like all the clips I did of like the nuclear bombs exploding and all
that shit back in the day for Prometheus shows, that was all hundreds and hundreds of bitmaps
being animated in Resolume and then re-rendered and fucked up even further because it's like
just what I had to do.
You know what I mean?
And I still have like folders and folders of all the stuff that I used to do,
door and nose experiments, and I would like to eventually slap them in like structure or something.
Yeah, that's not going to be a challenge.
I think that would work lineup well.
And the other thing too is it's a node.
So this clip is a node so you can find a node set that maps that to a 3D object.
So now you've got this clip that's being fucked up in 3D space or you can do crazy shit with
different feedback options or mixing options to fuck with those clips even further.
Can you load pictures into it?
Yes you can.
Can you animate pictures doing like kind of what I just described?
That would be cool.
I don't think there's something that'll flip through them in a sequence.
Like you can't load a folder of them and it'd be like play these as a clip.
You've got to make a clip offline and then use that.
Yeah, I love that it just uses totally different part of my brain.
Like it's been nice to come home from work lately and just do some video stuff because it's not like
you get the same it's not all like gravy when you're using it.
There are definitely periods of like oh shit this is garbage garbage garbage.
But when you hit those points where it's like stuff locks up and you get that kind of flexible
like okay I can take this a few ways that's a fucking wonderful thing.
It's never really wrong it's just sometimes much more appealing to you than other points.
That's another thing that's really exciting about this is they're super fucking active
on the structure Facebook group.
Oh yeah I'm in it like even though I don't own one I've been paying close attention.
I feel like a a poser.
Hello fellow kids you know.
Hello fellow video enthusiasts.
Don't mind me I love structure I have three of them.
But yeah I've just been in there posing until I can get one trying to
tease myself with everyone's updates.
But yeah like seeing them update stuff constantly just making me want it more and more.
It is fucking active it is.
Solid now too and like a lot of things you know it's actually like they took the time and it
actually works really well it's not just limping along it's like like you said and used it for
hours like no problems it's never really crashed on me.
Honestly too I could probably keep gushing about the structure.
Like there's other parts of it that we really haven't touched on yet.
Yeah I was thinking that too we could go for a goddamn while in the structure.
The only other thing from knob con that I'd like to bring up was my number two thing which was
the Waldorf Chira and we were there.
I was just gonna say I had Chira on the list and then we'll talk about that.
Date for any of this I'm like when any time he's like no no idea and then you texted me today
and you're like hey guess what you can order it sweet water right now.
It's like three grand or something but maybe a little less but it's like up there with the
virus tie and I get it.
It's $22.99 it's actually cheaper than the virus.
Oh are they more than that?
Wow virus is $29.99.
So it's fair like but it sounded fucking great.
Yeah I had to jot it down.
Completely ninja dropped that dude.
Yeah I didn't get it.
Me either.
If they would have then said like it'll be out now when I was at knob con I would have been
plotting for that shit instead of blew it on a bunch of videos stopping.
What would it replace that you already have?
I don't know.
I would maybe maybe the blowfeld if it could but I bet they're going to be very different.
Like it's the synth engine made by the other company using the FPGA processor that they acquired
the technology from so I would just be interested to see if it could be like the virus because
it's still pretty big you know it's not like a more portable version of anything I have but
I like Waldorf stuff if it's like part of the quantum stuff but you know it sounds really good
and it's super reliable and it works really well that would be cool.
Yeah.
And if it's like effects per part which I think it was like which is one of the things the
blowfeld couldn't do.
Yeah yeah so that's intriguing.
Yeah it's effects per part I jotted down a few notes because I was trying to compare it
to the virus to see exactly like what is different.
It's very very similar.
Yeah.
And it's a little cheaper and from what I could tell it probably sounds a lot better.
Like it has a lot more like steps you know.
Like supposedly like nothing sounds alias at all in it or anything.
It's also got like fucking crazy polyphony like 128 voices and like each part can have like 32
notes.
I think the virus if I remember correctly is 16 parts right.
Yeah.
This is only eight parts but the amount of stuff that you can have per part seems you know on
par if not better than the TI.
You get four oscillators per part two main oscillators and then two subs.
Yeah.
The subs can have their own selectable like has different wave forms and modes that it can be in.
Or the two main asks you can combine into their hyper saw oscillator which is like I don't know
I'm supposed to have like six different saw waves like combined or you can run it in duo mode and
then it's 12 saw waves combined.
Okay.
It's very similar to I guess the virus hyper saw as well but and then also per part you have
nine stereo effects to select from three LFOs three envelope generators.
Wait is that per part per part?
Yeah and there's eight parts.
Yes.
That's bonkers.
Yeah a lot of shit.
A little crazy.
Yeah because like the virus like does a lot of that too but you know part of it is like
it's been around for a long time now.
Like I'm very used to the sound of it.
I like it for some things and there's some things that it sucks at.
Sonically like the blow felt a wipe the floor with it like on a sound level for me.
And I've heard that from other people too.
It's a World War four always manages to put like good drive and distortion.
I really dislike it on the tie to the large extent even though they have all these amp models.
I don't think it sounds like it's not what I'm looking for.
Maybe I just don't know how to use it right.
It's very possible.
I would agree.
Yeah like the virus here I was all over like the Prometheus stuff and I was
disheartened to shit out of it. Most of that was not the onboard amp models.
I never really enjoyed them.
I always ended up running it through third party distortion anyways.
Yeah I don't know one of them on there that I like from a distortion standpoint.
It just doesn't sound right.
Right all of them were kind of close.
Yeah like each one was like oh that's almost good but yeah no none of them like at least
I've never managed to configure them in a way that I liked.
And like the reverbs can't stand up to like a Valhalla or something like that.
Yeah that's you know that's a tall order but still it's not like the chira had some
magic to it where some of the sounds were just like holy shit okay that sounds like very rich and
very modern for lack of a better word like it's using cutting edge stuff.
It's supposed to be quality yeah I didn't get a chance to really listen to it.
I just I knew you were going to put it through its pace.
And I just took your European and you said it sounded good and I'm like I'll pay attention to
this thing now.
But remember too when you were like where's the mod matrix?
When I took a while for the dude to demo it and it did seem to be like an awkward location
like you didn't just hit a mod matrix button and go there and like hit your attenuator.
Yeah I did forget to mention that it does have a mod matrix too.
Yeah which is cool that's one of the best things about the Volofeld and the virus.
It's like crazy nice mod matrix you know.
Yeah and we didn't interview anybody at knobcon but we did get some interview questions and maybe
some of our listeners can help us.
We wanted to know what the one thing someone would burn it knobcon was if you had to burn one
thing in the room.
Oh yeah.
They called it knobtoberfest this year which is out of fucking left field out of nowhere.
I don't know.
I ain't gonna lie dude I had no idea that this year was called knobtoberfest.
Because until we were standing in that hallway.
Yeah.
And I was like what the fuck is knobtoberfest and you're like this apparently I was like wait really?
It's like I don't remember it like when I registered when I was paying attention to the updates
never once did I notice that maybe I did see it and I thought it was like a joke.
Or you blocked it out.
Or yeah I just blocked it from that can't be real.
To be honest though yeah I think this was the least fun knobcon of all.
Easily.
Yeah it was just like I mean it wasn't bad but it wasn't good.
And certainly wasn't like fun.
Like we have fun but we've had more fun.
We amused ourselves.
Yeah we used ourselves.
Which we typically do.
But like we had to do it more than anything this time.
Like there was a lot of the same faces we've seen over the years and not many others this time.
It seemed like it was a lesser crowd and less performers and less manufacturers.
And it felt more like a like I don't know I've gone to many anime cons over the years.
And anime cons kind of develop the same like little clicks that start the form and then
outsiders kind of stop coming because they're not part of these clicks you know what I mean?
And it just becomes like its own thing.
I don't know.
It's kind of weird to see a synth convention get like that.
Especially for an industry that's like doing nothing but growing it's weird to see a convention
like this shrink.
Which is a bummer because I still like going.
I still think it's a useful thing to go to.
We got to check out a bunch of stuff like deluge.
I got to see all of the updates they made and I end up getting one and I'm enjoying it.
It has problems.
There's a couple of things that I'm like kind of working through.
One is the I just did a bunch of things and I don't know what I did.
Thank god I'm like not really going to save this anyway.
Like they're still I still do a lot of accidental things because there's a lot of
combinations and stuff like that.
I just need to use to it.
But you know last year's review of the deluge was this thing's kind of a shitty mono.
Yeah I made a huge advancements in the software and now it's totally fucking usable.
I probably wouldn't have known that if I hadn't gone to.
No I'm gone.
Yeah.
So it was cool.
Like I still want to go for that and I still just like these are people that we talk to that
we would not talk to otherwise.
Speaking of like that type of scenario that's another thing I have listed under my
my disappointments was a neo analog.
Oh yeah.
I know me like we're like really hyped that they were here this time.
Last year there are no show and that was like one of the first tables we hit.
Only defined no item core there like they did not bring their flagship product.
It was weird.
You asked about it and he seemed like he was already like tired of answering that question.
Uh huh.
Yeah.
I was like dude.
And it was first thing in the morning.
It was first thing in the morning.
I think there was the first people to walk up to him dude.
Yeah I just bring one.
I guess he knew he was going to be answering that question many many more times throughout the day.
But yeah what he he did not bring his flagship core for.
Instead he had a filter to show off your Iraq filter this time around.
And that was cool.
Like it sounded good.
It was like a nice filter but at the same time I'm like do we really need another filter in your
Iraq?
Right.
Like I don't know and it's not for sale yet.
So I was just kind of surprised to see that that's that's what he brought.
Like yeah.
But if it would have been like parts of the I-teen core in your Iraq module at a decent price.
Right.
Yeah we probably would have left.
Absolutely.
With like some saturation module models in there.
Some sort of like envelope generator.
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
It's just like a normal multi-mode filter from what I tell.
I was like that's cool.
Good for you I guess.
But like if he had had a core there would probably have walked out with one.
You know what I mean?
Or at least got some hands on time which would have sold me or you know the other direction.
You know maybe realize that I don't maybe need this.
I don't know.
But it would have been cool to have some hands on time with one.
I was just surprised that you finally showed up and didn't bring one.
But regardless I bought one today anyways.
Having no hands on time with one.
So we'll see how that goes I guess.
You did spend some time with and we got a good demo of the Joe Mox Alpha Base.
Which you then did get.
Yeah and I sold that today also.
So to buy the I-2 core.
That was a this is as smooth as segues we're going to get.
Yeah.
Into that.
I don't know if we can do this any better.
I don't want to crap on it.
It's a good drum machine.
It's the sound is good like we discovered at Knob Con when we played with that one.
That was on display.
It's not the sound I have an issue with.
It's the interface.
It's kind of a very awkward machine to navigate and to tweak out on.
It's not that things are buried in menus.
Because it's kind of not.
The menus are only two levels deep.
But it's the fact that like things are broken down per row.
And you can only look at like one row at a time.
Like it's like okay I'm adjusting the pitch of the kick.
Okay now I'd like to adjust the snap of the envelope.
Well I have to go down to this row.
Turn this knob so that it pops up on the screen now and I can hit that.
You know what I mean?
It's a little weird.
It's not the most like tweaking friendly interface.
And a couple times I managed to get into a mode
that I had no idea what the mode was and I couldn't get out of it.
By accidentally like hitting things in the wrong order.
And then all of a sudden like things are flashing.
And I'm like what the hell did I just do?
I don't know.
And it's like there's no indication on the screen really of what the hell mode I'm in now.
And little things that irked my OCD kind of triggered me was there's things labeled wrong.
The fucking tune and pitch on the kick is backwards.
Like everything's laid out on the menu like you know one to one.
Pretty much like there's four knobs so there's four options
that'll pop up on the screen for that row.
The fucking tune and the pitch are reversed than what they are on the knobs.
And I'm like how do you do that?
Like it's the first two parameters on the first instrument on the first track.
Like nobody caught that that's asked backwards.
The thing it's most known for is the kick drum.
Exactly and I was like if you can't even get the labeling right on the parameters for your kick.
Which this machine is known for like I don't think I want to spend a whole lot more time with this thing.
As a QA professional I'm furious.
But like I also own the modules the M-brain and the M-base at one point.
And again I love the sound of those two modules my main problem was programming them.
It's it was even more a problem you know what I mean?
And I feel like while the circuitry of those are supposed to be improved in the alpha base.
I feel like the interface for them is no better.
And it's like at that point I might as well just have the modules again.
It's you know what I mean?
But the sound was good like those are the only two analog circuits in there is the
the kick and then the M-brain percussion.
Yeah the rest are all sample based.
But it's weird because they don't have the same parameters.
Like your hi-hats and all that stuff are different than the two that are just labeled sample.
So it's kind of weird but you can run them all through analog filters and the filter was kind
of nice and you can adjust like the Joe Mox metallic noise which I'm a big fan of.
Yeah I mean I love their noise circuits and the filters.
Like I've spent a good amount of time now with different analog drum machines.
You know I've owned pretty much all the big ones from Riddem Tempest, Alpha-Baze,
Drum Brute, Joe Mox modules. I don't know sound wise I feel like it's up there for sure but
I just feel like it's not at the top of the list.
I think if anything I would still prefer a Tempest overall of them.
And I kind of miss the Tempest at this point.
It's not as flexible but that's kind of the point.
You know what I mean?
I feel like the Alpha-Baze is almost too goddamn flexible that it's really problematic to dial in
what you want. You know what I mean? It almost feels like they kind of want you to use it as
like a preset machine and that's not what I want a drum machine for.
I would think like why doesn't he make something that's like a grand that just says the voices
with MIDI and trigger inputs. Fuck the sequencer. Just have the voices maybe even not presets.
Just like easy to patch up a few knobs for each one and like a big rack thing or something.
Yeah I'd be into that.
I mean it's funny though when I first saw that that's kind of what I thought it was going to be.
Right. The way that it's laid out. The way that it looked.
Like the first time I was like oh that's fucking brilliant.
Still looking at the menu a lot.
A lot. Yeah that's yeah.
It's not divey but you're still relying on that tiny screen for pretty much any sense of where you
are. You know what I mean? I'm not feeling that.
I don't know. I feel like he kind of shot himself in the foot a bit by trying to make it out,
do everything because it doesn't need to. It just needs to do what Joe Mox does well and easily.
And you'd have a banging machine. You know what I mean? So parting ways with it.
So you're parting ways with it and you're getting instead.
You know I've seen Core 4. I've wanted one forever and I feel like after spending some time with
that I don't need a more complex drum voice. I can already get as complex as I want on the modular
and I can get another TR8s for when I want something simple.
What I need is more complex processing and the ability to do
like what I used to do with the Sherman and just strange modulated filter
mangling. You know what I mean? When you can take like the simplest of
percussion sources and run it through multiple filters and saturation modules and modulation
then you start to get to the area that my brain is working great.
[Music]
Oh rolling. Rolling. Yeah. Almost forgot about that shit. Yeah so.
Yeah my interest in that waned quickly. Oh over the course of like minutes.
Well because I was having a little excited about the tiny one, the little one on one.
I was like oh you're I'm just gonna put you in my pocket.
You're everywhere with me and then I was like oh you're fucking useless.
Yeah talk about menu diving. It's like the worst parts of the TR8s
and a little fucking box with some pads. It's like oh you thought that was bad?
We made it worse. Yeah I don't get it. I mean no neither.
Groove boxes are never known to be compact. Those are usually the biggest things on your desk.
You know what I mean? They're bigger than your average drum machine or you know desktop synth
because you got a lot going on. It's a fucking workstation. Why did I decide to try and cram that
into something you could fit into your pocket is a little beyond me with a screen the size of a
calculator. The other thing about like Groove boxes is there's a performative element to it.
Like a lot of stuff is surfaced. You've got a bunch of stuff. That was the opposite of that.
Exactly. Yeah. Nothing. You were not going to jam on that thing.
No your lock didn't. You were not performing on that thing.
And it could do too many fucking things. Like you're going to use that little one-on-one to deal with
like multiple loops, a drum machine, a synthesizer and editing all that shit. That's going to be a
fucking bad day. Yeah. Yeah. So the even I mean so then right beside it was the 707. Yeah.
Which was the larger form factor. Which also so much reliance on that screen. So much.
You have to scroll down with the the little arrow keys just to see how many tracks you can do.
Which is 16. But like you can only see like what was it eight at a time.
Yeah. So like you have to scroll up and down and that's something you're supposed to be
performing on. So you can't even see in real time the tracks that you're going to be like
queuing up. That kind of bothered me. And there were some like project level limits that it's like
that's all you get for a whole fucking project. Yeah. Yeah. That was the main killer for me.
Or like a beat or like a song. And it's like no no no. You got to do like a live set off that.
I can't stop. The clip launching and like the built-in synth engines and all that. I was like
oh this thing might be like a terra's sp16 killer for me. Yeah. You know I generally was
hopeful for it. But after seeing the demo I was like nah I don't think so. Like it has features
that the sp16 doesn't have. But I'm sticking with my sp16 for now. And even going back to like
the projects thing. I was like oh well maybe the switching between projects is faster because in my
mind I'm thinking of like the electron. If I'm loading a project everyone like go get a beer.
Yeah. Like switching between projects is a non trivial task. Like okay maybe they've come up
with a way where you can switch a project on a beat. No it took just as fucking long. Like it
had a fucking progress bar and everything. I'm like this is way less per project and I'm going to
like be switching between it more often than the electron stuff. Right. And then we went over to
the lose table and that dude was like loading new projects like in a fraction of a second.
Yeah. It was just like boop. I was like okay. Because that's kind of seemed like what Roland
was going after. Like oh we're going to compete with like the deluge and the terraze you know and
like the the Akai. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah I don't. I mean realistically they probably don't consider
the deluge or what is it? Synth strum. Competition. You don't think they should have. I think they're
their biggest threat right now for the price and the features like oh it's way better.
Oh but the problem is like you can't go to Sweetwater Perfect Circuit and get a deluge.
True. You have to order from them. It is a small fucking come. It's a small operation.
If more people knew about it I think it would be a bigger deal. I think it's just kind of
just sliding under the radar there for a lot of people. Because like we said the deluge is
kind of slow growth. You know it's been around since 2016 and back then it was not nearly as
cool as it is now with like the audio and MIDI looping and like all that shit and like it's cool.
They update the front panels and you can actually for $20 get a new front panel with the new legends.
It's not like a million dollar thing that you have to send in to get serviced. It's just a couple
fucking screws like they thought about it. You know. Whereas the 707 of the 101 just seemed like
fucking rushed out marketing shit like they designed that in Photoshop and then built it.
If the deluge had a screen I would own one immediately. It's just that lack of screen that
still turns me off. Part of it that got me was like the editing and the lack of the screen and
I felt like I realized like oh I'm super spoiled by a electron stuff and I need to be able to edit
like a bunch of parameters at one time. Kind of like you were saying with the Joe Mox. Like I
don't want to like individually but I was just thinking about it the wrong way really. It wasn't
it didn't meet my specific needs so I kind of bailed on it because I wanted to try other shit.
So I could have gone further with it and I didn't. I'm super happy with mine but the synth engine
is just absolute fucking garbage. It's so bad. I don't think it's bad technically.
I just think their idea of what people would want out of a synth engine on a drum machine like this
it just misses the mark. Everything is just like giggling, using cheesy.
This one thing I will give the 707 is that the synth engine in there seemed capable. Yeah and
like you could get some good sounding stuff out of it if you felt like diving through all those
menus and entering what he was showing us as the advanced mode. Oh god yeah. To get to the extra
parameters so you could actually edit the synth sounds. Deep parameters like filter cut off.
Yeah I definitely had a vibe of like dude you are not reading the room. Yeah yeah. The thing is
though like that's not what I need in a performance group box is synth stuff. Like it would be cool
to maybe do like a few acid lines here and there you know on the box but for the most part I wanted
something that could do clip launching nicely you know what I mean and conveniently which that
doesn't because you have to rely on that crappy little screen. I think that actually is something
the deluge solves. It is. I mean it does for sure. Really good job with that. I'm saying if I had
a screen I would buy that instantly. It has the features exactly what I want I think wins over
like the 707 and the SP16 and even the Akai stuff. But I don't like the whole like monomone only
tiny little LED buttons as my only like feedback of what I'm doing. You know what I mean?
Yeah that's like that's I think that's illegitimate and rational critique of it. Like I've already
seen progress and I'm starting to be like oh I see what you're doing there and there are these
sort of like repeated patterns. They have not everything is just like this sort of like crazy
in different way. Like I'm like when that guy was giving us the demo at knobcon and he's just
bouncing the fucking round and like everything's coming together. It's not out of the box. You're
not going to pick this thing up and immediately grock it. You're a more patient man than me.
Basically what I want is Octatrack and Abilson Live in a box with a screen like the SP16.
I would argue that Deiluge is the monom in Abilton.
Like great together. Definitely.
That's and I like both of those. The monom didn't work for me because I got a little bit lost in a
sea of contextualist buttons and I'm like I don't know where the fuck I am. So it solves that problem
and I'm really familiar with Abilton. So like it's working really well for me.
Yeah like the MIDI sequence or a lot. I think the MIDI is fantastic on it. Just the way like the
colors like that really struck me like when I was like I'll miss that part of it knowing that
like oh yeah that yellow part. I could like the way you could scroll the sequences and see this
stuff. I was like oh I know what that is just by looking at that fucking LED visualization.
I'm like that's fucking cool. Like more things should leverage that type of stuff.
And the fact that you can set all of those. Yeah yeah which is really nice. In the luminosity.
Very I was like oh this is a little fucking bright. I didn't even realize that's cool.
Yeah. Do you also know that you can load a single cycle? Yeah. I'm shooting on the synth engine
but I do think you can overcome that with just grabbing a bunch of single cycle stuff and loading
loading those on. I haven't done that yet so I don't have a review of it. I have the filters and
shit sound though. They're pretty good. The filter is fine. They self resonate. The
no it's digital like take it then like just not like an analog filter built in here. Sounds like
an a vloggy but it might be a really good model but I'm guessing it's digital. The main thing
that really sucks though is the reverb. Okay oh yeah. It's fucking garbage. So that was a little
disappointing because I'm always like it'd be cool like if it was like a at least good basic
reverb and the saturation. There's like one good value. It's like nothing nothing too much.
All right there's like a little spot in there. That said though they are still
very much at working on it. So that might be something to end up solving. We've table oscillator
coming that'll be you know since the FM shit was so clicky. Did you notice that like it?
Yes. Like it's fucked up like just set the phase to zero on every hit like it's wrong.
That's it though. That's my list of complaints right now and I'm glad we went to knobcon and
that guy showed me. Cool. Oh oh I don't know where's this going.
Now you remind me what my most favorite thing of knobcon was getting some hands on time with the
WMD crater. Fucking amazing module. What about that? Amazing module like I wish I could have
bought it like immediately but it's not on sale yet for like a couple more months like you possibly
bought into the year. Wow yeah. Wonder what. A little bummed about that. I don't know but I'm
incredibly hyped for that. Like just fucking around I was able to dial in like multiple sweet
spots like you know at the booth through the crappy speakers I could still detect like the
punch and the body and the tick you know what I mean. I was like hearing like oh yeah I could
retour that to a sample. So for listeners who may not be aware of what this is.
What is the crater? I'm pretty sure it's analog. I can't remember off top of my head.
I think it is. Yeah it's an analog kick voice that has like its own
three stage saturation circuit. It has its own body section and like you know pitch and tone.
In like 12 HP. Yeah it's tiny. Yeah it's very tiny. It's like the same form factor as like
the crucible module which is the new symbol module and things like that. And it comes
black panel. Real simple like no thrills really. It's just like straight black panel.
You know white labeling. Real clean. It seems like a fast well thought out interface for a
kick drum. Like better than any other kick drum that I've owned and I think I've owned almost
all of them. At one point you know I've tried quite a few and it just seemed to cover all the
territory that you want out of like a techno drum. You know what I mean. Yeah. I mean I don't think
it went all the way down to like organic sounding drums. No there's no physical modeling type
shit but like it definitely covers your entire like 808 to 909 and everything in between.
It does some interesting stuff with gate lengths too to the point where like you can almost have
it sound like two different kicks layered on top of each other with intelligent gate sequence.
Oh that was a cool feature. Yeah like it'll hold for as long as the gate and you can hit it with
like accent on top. So like it was doing some interesting like like you had your 808 long
kick and then like your snappy punching 909 almost on top of it all in one voice. You know.
Yeah. I was really blown away by it. I hope they release more drum modules like in this form
factor. Yeah. You know like I could definitely see a nice snare coming out like that. You know
and some other stuff. Yeah. I would build a whole drum kit out of it for sure.
[Music]